README.md, before:

# Redux - Request Middleware

Simple Redux middleware that internally uses [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) and allows your dispatched actions to easily hook into the various Promise lifecycles.

## Overview

Any action that is dispatched using the middleware's provided Symbol for a request will be picked up by the middleware. All other action types are ignored by the middleware and will not affect any existing actions that your application currently dispatches.

The required action type can be imported via:

```javascript
import { symbols } from "@fanai/redux-request-middleware";
const { REQUEST } = symbols;
```

The middleware then picks up those actions and makes an async request to the endpoint specified in the options config using axios. The options configuration can optionally be a function that then returns an Axios configuration object or an array of configuration objects. This is useful if your options need some value in your application's state that either aids in forming the options or is sent along with the request itself.

The config for axios can be either an object representing a single request, or alternatively it can be an array of config objects which internally calls `axios.all()` and resolves with an array of values similar to `Promise.all()`.

Each configured lifecycle, e.g. PENDING, SETTLED, FULFILLED, REJECTED, CANCELLED, is expected to return a flux standard action so a `type` property is required. The `payload` is simply the data you want to be dispatched just like any other action in your application. If a function is provided for the `payload` then that function will receive the `response` of the async request, the original dispatched `action`, and `state` which comes from Redux's `getState()` method. You can optionally use these to build the payload that is dispatched at each stage in the respective lifecycle for the request that was made, therefore allowing your payloads to be dynamically built.

_Note:_ The `SETTLED` lifecycle functions similar to `Promise.finally() and will receive the error or the response depending on which is returned by axios`.

In addition, the middleware supports short-polling in-order to poll a given endpoint at a set interval with an optional timeout.

More information on the options and their default values for the middleware's configuration can be found below.

For more on Redux and middleware checkout the [redux docs](https://redux.js.org/advanced/middleware)

### Usage

```javascript

// hook up the middleware
import { createStore, combineReducers, applyMiddleware } from 'redux'
import { RequestReduxMiddleware, symbols } from '@fanai/redux-request-middleware';
const { PENDING, SETTLED, FULFILLED, REJECTED, REQUEST } = symbols;

const store = createStore(
  MyApp,
  // applyMiddleware() tells createStore() how to handle middleware
  applyMiddleware(RequestReduxMiddleware)
);

// in your action creator...
import { Dispatch } from 'redux';

// then dispatch an action with a type of REQUEST: Symbol(@@request)
dispatch({
  payload: {
    concurrent?: false, // allow same endpoint to be hit concurrently
    // pre-populated axios instance set with any global application request defaults
    instance?: axios.create(AxiosRequestConfig),
    // async request lifecycle hooks
    lifecycle?: {
      [SETTLED]?: {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'SETTLED'
      },
      [FULFILLED]?: {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'FULFILLED'
      },
      [REJECTED]?: {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'REJECTED'
      },
      [PENDING]?: {
        payload: (response: undefined, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'PENDING',
      }
      [CANCELLED]?: {
        payload: (response: undefined, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'CANCELLED',
      }
    },
    namespace?: (options, uid) => options.url, // unique request type
    // axios request options or function that receives the appState and should return an AxiosRequestConfig
    options: {},
    poll?: {
      pollInterval?: 2000, // time between polls
      pollUntil?: (response) => true, // conditional to exit polling
     timeout?: 10000 * 2, // bail from polling if pollUntil condition is never met
    },
    // configurable action based on HTTP status
    statusCodes?: new Map([
      [[400], {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse | AxiosError, action: RequestAction, state: any) => {},
        type: 'SOME_ACTION_TYPE',
      }]
    ]),
  },
  type: REQUEST
})
```

### Options

|     Name     | Required |      Default      | Description                                                                                                                                                                           |
| :----------: | :------: | :---------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|   instance   |    ❌    |     undefined     | [axios instance](https://github.com/axios/axios#axioscreateconfig) axios instance that can be pre-configured with common options that are then merged with subsequent request options |
|   options    |    ✅    |     undefined     | [axios configuration](https://github.com/axios/axios#request-config) or a function that receives the current appState and returns an Axios config object                              |
|  concurrent  |    ❌    |       true        | Allow requests against the same endpoint to happen concurrently                                                                                                                       |
|  namespace   |    ❌    | Symbol(@@generic) | Caches concurrent requests against a namespace in-order to cancel when concurrent is set to false                                                                                     |
|  pollUntil   |    ❌    |     undefined     | Function used to enabled polling. If supplied it receives the response and should return true/false in-order to exit or continue polling                                              |
| pollInterval |    ❌    |       5000        | Number of milliseconds to wait between polls                                                                                                                                          |
|   timeout    |    ❌    |       2min        | Number of milliseconds to wait before bailing out of an active poll                                                                                                                   |
| statusCodes  |    ❌    |     undefined     | Map of http status codes to perform a lookup against when a request succeeds or fails                                                                                                 |
|  lifecycle   |    ❌    |     undefined     | If not provided then the request will happen and simple return a Promise that resolves with the fetch's success or rejects with a failure error                                       |

## License

Redux-middleware is open source software [licensed as Apache License, Version 2.0](https://github.com/fanai-inc/firestore-utils/blob/develop/LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

feature: add non-axios support
- fetch option can be supplied that should return a Promise

README.md, after:

# Redux - Request Middleware

Simple Redux middleware that internally uses [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) and allows your dispatched actions to easily hook into the various Promise lifecycles.

## Overview

Any action that is dispatched using the middleware's provided Symbol for a request will be picked up by the middleware. All other action types are ignored by the middleware and will not affect any existing actions that your application currently dispatches.

The required action type can be imported via:

```javascript
import { symbols } from "@fanai/redux-request-middleware";
const { REQUEST } = symbols;
```

The middleware then picks up those actions and makes an async request to the endpoint specified in the options config using axios. The options configuration can optionally be a function that then returns an Axios configuration object or an array of configuration objects. This is useful if your options need some value in your application's state that either aids in forming the options or is sent along with the request itself.

The config for axios can be either an object representing a single request, or alternatively it can be an array of config objects which internally calls `axios.all()` and resolves with an array of values similar to `Promise.all()`.

Each configured lifecycle, e.g. PENDING, SETTLED, FULFILLED, REJECTED, CANCELLED, is expected to return a flux standard action so a `type` property is required. The `payload` is simply the data you want to be dispatched just like any other action in your application. If a function is provided for the `payload` then that function will receive the `response` of the async request, the original dispatched `action`, and `state` which comes from Redux's `getState()` method. You can optionally use these to build the payload that is dispatched at each stage in the respective lifecycle for the request that was made, therefore allowing your payloads to be dynamically built.

_Note:_ The `SETTLED` lifecycle functions similar to `Promise.finally() and will receive the error or the response depending on which is returned by axios`.

In addition, the middleware supports short-polling in-order to poll a given endpoint at a set interval with an optional timeout.

More information on the options and their default values for the middleware's configuration can be found below.

For more on Redux and middleware checkout the [redux docs](https://redux.js.org/advanced/middleware)

### Usage

```javascript

// hook up the middleware
import { createStore, combineReducers, applyMiddleware } from 'redux'
import { RequestReduxMiddleware, symbols } from '@fanai/redux-request-middleware';
const { PENDING, SETTLED, FULFILLED, REJECTED, REQUEST } = symbols;

const store = createStore(
  MyApp,
  // applyMiddleware() tells createStore() how to handle middleware
  applyMiddleware(RequestReduxMiddleware)
);

// in your action creator...
import { Dispatch } from 'redux';

// then dispatch an action with a type of REQUEST: Symbol(@@request)
dispatch({
  payload: {
    concurrent?: false, // allow same endpoint to be hit concurrently
    // pre-populated axios instance set with any global application request defaults
    instance?: axios.create(AxiosRequestConfig),
    // async request lifecycle hooks
    lifecycle?: {
      [SETTLED]?: {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'SETTLED'
      },
      [FULFILLED]?: {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'FULFILLED'
      },
      [REJECTED]?: {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'REJECTED'
      },
      [PENDING]?: {
        payload: (response: undefined, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'PENDING',
      }
      [CANCELLED]?: {
        payload: (response: undefined, action: RequestAction, state: any): any => {},
        type: 'CANCELLED',
      }
    },
    namespace?: (options, uid) => options.url, // unique request type
    // axios request options or function that receives the appState and should return an AxiosRequestConfig
    options: {},
    poll?: {
      pollInterval?: 2000, // time between polls
      pollUntil?: (response) => true, // conditional to exit polling
     timeout?: 10000 * 2, // bail from polling if pollUntil condition is never met
    },
    // configurable action based on HTTP status
    statusCodes?: new Map([
      [[400], {
        payload: (response: AxiosResponse | AxiosError, action: RequestAction, state: any) => {},
        type: 'SOME_ACTION_TYPE',
      }]
    ]),
  },
  type: REQUEST
})
```

### Options

|     Name     | Required |      Default      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| :----------: | :------: | :---------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|   instance   |    ❌    |     undefined     | [axios instance](https://github.com/axios/axios#axioscreateconfig) axios instance that can be pre-configured with common options that are then merged with subsequent request options                                                                       |
|   options    |    ✅    |     undefined     | [axios configuration](https://github.com/axios/axios#request-config) or a function that receives the current appState and returns an Axios config object. _NOTE_ this can optionally be supplied if you instead supply a `fetch` param. More on that below. |
|  concurrent  |    ❌    |       true        | Allow requests against the same endpoint to happen concurrently                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|  namespace   |    ❌    | Symbol(@@generic) | Caches concurrent requests against a namespace in-order to cancel when concurrent is set to false                                                                                                                                                           |
|  pollUntil   |    ❌    |     undefined     | Function used to enabled polling. If supplied it receives the response and should return true/false in-order to exit or continue polling                                                                                                                    |
| pollInterval |    ❌    |       5000        | Number of milliseconds to wait between polls                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|   timeout    |    ❌    |       2min        | Number of milliseconds to wait before bailing out of an active poll                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| statusCodes  |    ❌    |     undefined     | Map of http status codes to perform a lookup against when a request succeeds or fails                                                                                                                                                                       |
|  lifecycle   |    ❌    |     undefined     | If not provided then the request will happen and simple return a Promise that resolves with the fetch's success or rejects with a failure error                                                                                                             |
|    fetch     |    ❌    |     undefined     | function that return's a Promise. This is helpful when you want to use the middleware but you might for instance be using a different API that internally has its own fetch mechanism other than Axios. If this value is supplied the options are ignored.  |

## License

Redux-middleware is open source software [licensed as Apache License, Version 2.0](https://github.com/fanai-inc/firestore-utils/blob/develop/LICENSE.md).
